Add EIP-6224: Contracts Dependencies Registry (#6224)
ethereum/EIPs: EIPS/eip-6224.md

---
eip: 6224
title: Contracts Registry the Dependency Injector
description: Management of smart contracts and their dependencies
author: Artem Chystiakov (@arvolear)
discussions-to: https://ethereum-magicians.org/t/eip-6224-contractsregistry-the-dependency-injector/12316
status: Draft
type: Standards Track
category: ERC
created: 2022-12-27
requires: 1967
---

## Abstract

> The EIP proposes a way to manage smart contracts within the decentralized application/ecosystem. It enables protocols to become agile and reduces their maintenance threshold. The EIP demonstrates smart contracts dependency injection mechanism to organize the usage of their dependencies, especially in large projects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The EIP standardizes the management of smart contracts within the decentralized application ecosystem. It enables protocols to become agile and reduces their maintenance threshold. This EIP additionally introduces a smart contract dependency injection mechanism to audit dependency usage, to aid larger composite projects.
```

> The EIP proposes a way to manage smart contracts within the decentralized application/ecosystem. It enables protocols to become agile and reduces their maintenance threshold. The EIP demonstrates smart contracts dependency injection mechanism to organize the usage of their dependencies, especially in large projects.

Reviewer: Please define agility.

Author: Changed agility to upgradeability

Applications that have a clear facade and transparency upon their dependencies are easier to develop and maintain. The given EIP tries to solve the aforementioned problems by presenting two concepts: the **contracts registry** and the **dependant**.

The advantages of using the provided pattern might be:

- Structured smart contracts management via specialized contract.
- Ad-hoc upgradeability provision.
- Runtime smart contracts addition, removal, and substitution.
- Dependency injection mechanism to keep smart contracts' dependencies under control.

## Specification

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 and RFC 8174.

### ContractsRegistry

> The `ContractsRegistry` SHOULD implement the following interface:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ContractsRegistry` MUST implement the following interface:
```
There is no good reason to use SHOULD in this context.

   /**
    *  @notice REQUIRED The function that adds the contracts and deploys the Transaprent proxy above them.
    *  It MAY be used to add contract that the ContractsRegistry has to be able to upgrade
    *  @param name the name to associate the contract with
    *  @param contractAddress the address of the implementation
    */
   function addProxyContract(string memory name, address contractAddress) external;

   /**
    *  @notice RECOMMENDED The function that adds an already deployed proxy to the ContractsRegistry. It MAY be used
    *  when the system migrates to the new ContractRegistry. In that case, the new ProxyUpgrader MUST have the
    *  credentials to upgrade the newly added proxies
    *  @param name the name to associate the contract with
    *  @param contractAddress the address of the proxy
    */
   function justAddProxyContract(string memory name, address contractAddress) external;

   /**
    *  @notice REQUIRED The function to remove contracts from the ContractsRegistry
    *  @param name the associated name with the contract
    */
   function removeContract(string memory name) external;
}
```

> - The `ContractsRegistry` SHOULD deploy the `ProxyUpgrader` contract in the constructor that MUST be set as an admin of `Transparent` proxies deployed via `addProxyContract` method.

Reviewer: Should this be a SHOULD?

Author: It should be MUST, indeed

> - It SHOULD NOT be possible to add zero addresses to the `ContractsRegistry`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It MUST NOT be possible to add the zero address to the `ContractsRegistry`.
```

```solidity
pragma solidity ^0.8.0;

interface IDependant {
   /**
    *  @notice The function that is called from the ContractsRegistry (or factory) to inject dependencies.
    *  @param contractsRegistry the registry to pull dependencies from
    *
    *  The Dependant MUST perform a dependency injector access check to this method
    */
   function setDependencies(address contractsRegistry) external;

   /**
    *  @notice The function that sets the new dependency injector.
    *  @param injector the new dependency injector
    *
    *  The Dependant MUST perform a dependency injector access check to this method
    */
   function setInjector(address injector) external;

   /**
    *  @notice The function that gets the current dependency injector
    *  @return the current dependency injector
    */
   function getInjector() external view returns (address);
}
```

- The `Dependant` contract MUST pull its dependencies in the `setDependencies` method from the passed `contractsRegistry` address.

> - The `Dependant` contract MAY store the dependency injector address in the special slot `0x3d1f25f1ac447e55e7fec744471c4dab1c6a2b6ffb897825f9ea3d2e8c9be583` (obtained as `bytes32(uint256(keccak256("eip6224.dependant.slot")) - 1)`).

Reviewer: Standardizing implementation details is generally not a good idea. Why not create a getter function?

Author: Actually, it is not about the implementation, but rather a suggestion of where to store the injector address. That is to have a dedicated (out of the regular storage layout) place to help with upgradeability. 

Inspired by https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1967

## Rationale

> The EIP proposes a way to manage the system's smart contracts and maintain a clear usage of their dependencies. There are a few design decisions that have to be specified explicitly:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
This is more motivation, and it is assumed that the readers of an EIP know what all the sections mean.

### ContractsRegistry Rationale

> **Usage**

Reviewer: Bold lines should not be used as headers
```suggestion
#### Usage
```

> The `ContractsRegistry` SHOULD be the topmost smart contract in the system. It SHOULD NOT depend on other contracts. The extensions of this EIP SHOULD add proper access control check to the described non-view methods. 

Reviewer: What does topmost mean in this context?

Author: Removed the sentence mentioned above. Theoretically, there might be cases that the sentence contradicts with

> The `ContractsRegistry` SHOULD be the topmost smart contract in the system. It SHOULD NOT depend on other contracts. The extensions of this EIP SHOULD add proper access control check to the described non-view methods. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ContractsRegistry` SHOULD be the topmost smart contract in the system. It SHOULD NOT depend on other contracts. The extensions of this EIP SHOULD add proper access control checks to the described non-view methods. 
```

> The `getContract` and `getImplementation` methods SHOULD revert if the nonexisting contracts are asked. This logic MAY be used to ensure that proper dependencies are provided to the dependants.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `getContract` and `getImplementation` methods MUST revert if the nonexistent contracts are queried.
```
The latter sentence is an implementation detail that must be removed.

The `ContractsRegistry` MAY be set behind the proxy to enable runtime addition of custom methods. Applications MAY also leverage the pattern to develop custom tree-like `ContractsRegistry` data structures.

> **Contracts identifier**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Contracts identifier
```

> The `string` contracts identifier is chosen over the `uint256` and `bytes32` to maintain code readability and reduce the human-error chances when interacting with the `ContractsRegistry`. Being the topmost smart contract, it MAY be typical for the users to interact with it via block explorers or DAOs. Clarity, not gas usage, is a factor of choice.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `string` contracts identifier is chosen over the `uint256` and `bytes32` to maintain code readability and reduce the human-error chances when interacting with the `ContractsRegistry`. Being the topmost smart contract, it MAY be typical for the users to interact with it via block explorers or DAOs. Clarity was prioritized over gas usage.
```

> **Proxy**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Proxy
```

> The `Transparent` proxy is chosen over the `UUPS` proxy to hand the upgradeability responsibility to the `ContractsRegistry` itself. The extensions of this EIP MAY use the proxy of their choice.

Reviewer: It might be worth reviewing https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2535, which is currently the most flexible upgradeable contract method.

Author: The Diamond proxy is a really nice pattern. However, it is not applicable to the idea and functionality above. Not sure if the EIP-2535 reference is needed

### Dependant Rationale

> **Dependencies**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Dependencies
```

The required dependencies MUST be set in the overridden `setDependencies` method, not in the `constructor` or `initializer` methods.

> **Injector**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Injector
```

Only the injector MUST be able to call the `setDependencies` and `setInjector` methods. The initial injector will be a zero address, in that case, the call MUST NOT revert on access control checks. The `setInjector` function is made `public` to support the dependency injection mechanism for factory-made contracts. However, the method SHOULD be used with extra care.

The injector address MAY be stored in the dedicated slot `0x3d1f25f1ac447e55e7fec744471c4dab1c6a2b6ffb897825f9ea3d2e8c9be583` to exclude the chances of storage collision.

## Reference Implementation

*0xdistributedlab-solidity-library dev-modules* provides a reference implementation.

> - MIT licensed, no constraints on the usage.

Reviewer: Must be CC0, since MIT *does* have usage restrictions (you must include a copy of the license).

Author: Removed the license mention. Should I still include a copy of the license?

> - Test cases provided.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Not part of the reference impl.

---
eip: 6224

> title: Contracts Registry the Dependency Injector

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: Contracts Registry for Dependency Injector
```

Author: Rewrote the title

> description: Management of smart contracts and their dependencies

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: An interface for managing smart contract dependencies with dependency injection pattern.
```
